I'm inside my next door J.S. file in this video we're gonna write out some code in here to get a better
understanding of what that express library is that we installed.
Just a moment to go before we write out any code.
Let me show you a quick diagram okay.
So I showed you this diagram just a moment ago in this diagram.
Our browser is making a h TTP request to a no J.S. web server no GSK can run a web server and essentially
handle incoming HDTV requests out of the box.
In other words there are functions inside the no J standard library that allows us to receive network
requests and then respond to them in some fashion.
However the built in web server that is included inside of no JSA is standard library is kind of short
on features.
In other words if we use the web server included with a standard library then we're going to end up
having to write a whole bunch of code to handle some very basic operations rather than going through
all that pain and all that extra work.
We very frequently decide to instead make use of a dependency called Express.
This is a library that allows us to very quickly set up a full featured web server that can receive
network requests and then respond to them.
So this is the same thing more or less.
That is include inside the node standard library.
Well it's some extra code added into it.
So inside my index not just file I'm going to require in that express library and I'm going to use it
to setup a new web server.
Let's take a look at how that is done so I'm going to first begin by removing the console log I'm going
to require n express and then going to use the Express library to create a new variable called simply
app.
It's also const app is express app right here is an object that describes all the different things that
our web server can do.
So we're going to use this app variable quite a bit throughout this entire application.
We're going to be customizing this object right here to tell our web server exactly what kind of requests
it should expect to receive and what it should do whenever it does receive a request.
Case in point right away we're going to add in something called a root handler.
This is going to tell our web server what it should do when it receives a network request coming from
our browser.
So to add in a root handler we will write out app dot get the first argument will be a forward slash
inside of a string.
The second argument is going to be a callback function.
This callback function is always going to be called with the same two arguments that we abbreviate as
req and rez.
The first argument req stands for request it is an object that represents the incoming request from
a browser into our web server.
The second argument of Rez is short for response and as you would guess it represents the outgoing response
from our server back over to the browser so if we ever need to receive information coming from a user
we're always going to find it inside of this req object if we ever want to come you indicate with the
user.
Or send some information back to the browser.
We're always going to interact with the rez object instead inside of this root handler.
So this callback function.
I'm going to write out some code that's going to send a greeting to whoever made a request to my web
server so I will write out red dot sent Hi there like so it's now in total.
This little segment of code means anytime someone makes a network request to the root root of my application
and I know it's root root because that first argument right there.
We'll discuss exactly what that means in just a moment.
We want to run this callback function when that callback function runs we're going to take the string
Hi there and send it back to whoever just made a request to us.
All right after that I'm going to tell my application to start listening for incoming network requests
by default.
When we run all this code right here we can't actually access it right away from a browser.
Instead we have to tell this application to start listening for incoming network traffic on a particular
port on our machine it's going to write out app dot listen three thousand well then put in a callback
function and inside there I'll put in a console log of listening okay without talking about what's going
on there quite too much.
Let's save this file.
We'll try to run it from our terminal well then go back over to our browser and try to access the server.
We just put together so I can go back over to my terminal and I'm going to make sure that NPM run dev
is still running.
It looks like it is because I can see listening right here if you see an air right now that is totally
fine.
Let me show you the error you might be seeing at this point you might be seeing something like this
something that says e Adder in use or something very similar.
If you see that it means that some other process is already running on port three thousand on your computer.
If you see that error message you can either try to go find that other running web server and stop it
and then restart our server or alternatively you can just change the port right here to some other number
like say three thousand one or two or three or four or five or whatever else once you make that change
say the file and then you should see the error that says e Adder and use go away.
All right now that our web server is running we can access it directly from our web browser.
So back inside my browser I'm going to open up a new tab and navigate to a local host colon 3000 and
then once there I see the text high there appear on the screen.
So when we type in local those 3000 we are making an H TTP request to the running express web server
that we just created on our local machine we make that request our Express server sees the incoming
request and then responds with a simple text high there which the browser then receives and then prints
out on the screen as the response so that's the basics of using express.
There's still however as you might guess a lot to understand about the code inside of here.
So another pause come back next video we'll talk a little bit more about what is going on behind the
scenes.